=====================
LocalDirectory Design
=====================

:Revision: $Id$

.. sectnum::    :depth: 4
.. contents::   :depth: 4


Introduction
============

A Local Directory is a directory whose purpose is to act as a
proxy to a directory in the user's home folder.

Reading, writing, creating, deleting and searches are all
dispatched appropriately to the corresponding directory in the
user's home folder.

A Local Directory is typically used to provide personal address
books to users, storing contacts that only them can have access
to, without having to create and configure a directory in every
user's home folder.


Warnings
========

**Changes made on the** Local directory **will not be propagated
to the directories that have already been created** in the user's
home folder.

After release v. 1.13.0-1, the property "directory_id" does not
refer anymore to the ID of the directory created in the user's
home folder (this one will have the same ID than the directory
with type "CPS Local Directory"), but is used when creating an
indirect directory in the user's home folder: it is the ID of the
directory it refers to (entries will be links to entries of that
directory). See features below if you do not even know what that
means.


Features
========

Setting up properties
---------------------

All the properties - except "Ids of the directories it refers to
(for an Indirect Directory)", also known as "directory_ids", and
"Type of local directory", also known as "directory_type", - will
be used to set up the properties of the personal directories
created in the user's home folders. These directories will be
named after the name of the Local Directory.

The property "Type of local directory", also known as
"directory_type", makes it possible to choose whether the
directories created in the user's home folder will have the type
"CPS ZODB Directory" or "Indirect Directory".

- A ZODB Directory is the most common kind of directory.

- An Indirect Directory is a directory whose purpose is to store
  "links" to entries of another directory, so that changes made to
  the entries do not have to be reported on the two directories.
  See documentation in the ``doc/`` folder for more information.

If you do not know what to use, chose to use ZODB directories.

The property "Id of the directories it refers to (for an Indirect
Directory)", also known as "directory_ids", is used when creating an
indirect directory in the user's home folder: it is the IDs of the
directories it refers to (entries will be links to entries of
these directories).
